Fusion filtering staggered PR5 (#40)
PediatricOpenTargets/OpenPBTA-analysis: analyses/fusion_filtering/05-QC_putative_onco_fusion_distribution.Rmd

+ CAPZ2-MET is annotated as local-rearrangement. 

This removal of filtering lets us gather fusion calls known in oncogenic genes per cancer group but also adds a lot of fusions which @jaclyn-taroni, @jharenza and I would like to discuss here.

### QC filtering proposed

> Here I plot some barplots to identify fusions found in more than 4 cancer groups - there are just for visualization purposes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here I plot some barplots to identify fusions found in more than 4 cancer groups - they are just for visualization purposes.
```

> When actually filtering the fusions, we remove fusions that are found in more 4 *broad_histology* group - they are found to be artefactual because of the multiple diverse broad histologies in OpenPedCan dataset. (We have decided more than 4 here because we have seen that some known fusions like EWSR1−−FLI1 is seen is 4 different cancer groups in our current clinical file)

Author: Additional description added to emphasize that the graph used countCancerGroup and the actual filter used countBroadHistology

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When actually filtering the fusions, we remove fusions that are found in more 4 *broad_histology* groups - they are found to be artifactual because of the multiple diverse broad histologies in OpenPedCan dataset. (We have decided more than 4 here because we have seen that some known fusions, like EWSR1−−FLI1, is seen is 4 different cancer groups in our current clinical file)
```

FusionInNcg

# plot cancer groups that have Fusions that are potential false positives and found in multiple cancer groups
multiCGFusion<-fusion_calls %>% dplyr::filter(FusionName %in% FusionInNcg$FusionName) %>%
  # we want to remove annots column since there is difference in arriba annotation (uniquely has duplication/translocation/deletion values) and StarFusion annotation which will be counted twice since they are not unique
  dplyr::select(-annots) %>% 
  unique() 

ggplot(multiCGFusion,aes(x=multiCGFusion$FusionName,fill=multiCGFusion$cancer_group))+geom_bar()+theme(axis.text.x = element_text(angle=90))+coord_flip()+ylab("count")+xlab("FusionName(Total)")

```

### Filtering fusions found in more than 4 broad histologies removes 1183 fusions.  

We can assume these fusions to be potential false calls because it is highly unlikely that fusions of biological importance occur in these highly divese cancer groups. We (Krutika, Jo Lynne and Payal ) also manually reviewed "Total putative oncogene fusion" plots to look for genes that are found in more than 4 broad histology and none seemed to interesting/relevant.

```{r final filtering }

> # count number of fusions in putative oncogene annotated fused gene are in more than N (countBroadHistology) histology group

Author: Please see that I did not change any of the other codes that generate graphs - and only changed the steps that does the actual filtering.
